# Wrappers for Lidar Processing Command Line Tools
The lidar processing components in this toolkit currently are thin wrappers around executables available in the [LAStools](https://rapidlasso.com/lastools/) and [FUSION](http://forsys.cfr.washington.edu/fusion/fusionlatest.html) software packages. These wrappers allow you to specify calls to command line tools from these software distributions with Pythonic syntax, with underlying executing carried out using the Python subprocess module.

The command line tools from these software packages are available at the links above and are not distributed with the PyFIRS package or governed by the PyFIRS license.

## LAStools
LAStools tools are developed by Martin Isenburg of rapidlasso GMBH. A subset of the LAStools command line tools are open sourced, while many remain closed source. Source code (for open-sourced tools) and Windows binaries for all LAStools command line tools are published on [GitHub](https://github.com/LAStools/LAStools).  Consult the [LAStools license](https://github.com/LAStools?LAStools/blob/master/LICENSE.txt) for details about authorized use of LAStools tools. No documentation strings have been copied from the LAStools command line tools; links to the README.txt files hosted online for each LAStools command line tool are used to retrieve docstrings when you initialize a `useLAStools` class. The wrapper functions for LAStools are in the `lastools.py` script in this directory.

## FUSION
FUSION tools are developed by Bob McGaughey of the USDA Forest Service and are in the public domain, although source code has not been published online. Documentation strings for FUSION command line tools have been copied from the current (8/15/2018) versions of each of the tools. Not all FUSION tools are reproduced in PyFIRS. Several that are developed primarily to deal with deprecated formats (such as the LDA lidar data format) have not been included in PyFIRS. The addition of these tools would be relatively straightforward for those interested in doing so to contribute, and related pull requests would be happily accepted. The wrapper functions for FUSION are in the `fusion.py` script in this directory.
